MU-1612 Write example on how to use Environment Properties to target … (#120)
mulesoft/docs-munit: modules/ROOT/pages/use-environment-properties-on-tests-cookbook.adoc

= Testing with Environment Properties
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Assume that you have the following flow that obtains data from an external API and you need to consume it from a test environment when executing your MUnit tests:

[source,xml]
----
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_configuration">
	<http:request-connection host="sampleapi.com/api/v1/" port="80"/>
</http:request-config>
<flow name="requestApiFlow">
	<http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="/employee"/>
</flow>
----

> To consume data from a QA API endpoint when running your MUnit tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To consume data from a QA API endpoint when running your MUnit tests:
```

Reviewer: Making an example of something that I see often that is visible here:

Why use the wording "consume it from a test environment" in the opening para and then reword it to "consume data from a QA API endpoint" when introducing the steps? 

I assume that these mean the same thing, but it would be easier on an audience to refer to this action in one boilerplate wording, to avoid any chance of confusion. 

Always try to pick the one most precise but simple phrase or term, and then use it (and only it) throughout your deliverable.

. Extract the HTTP Configuration values into a properties file for each environment where you will execute the validations. Those properties files must go under `src/main/resources`:
+
.prod.properties
[source,xml,linenums]
----
http.host=dummy.restapiexample.com/api/v1/
http.port=80
----
+
.qa.properties
[source,xml,linenums]
----
http.host=dummy.qax.restapiexample.com/api/v1/
http.port=8081
----
+

> You can set a properties file for each one of your environments.

Reviewer: Do we need to repeat the sentence before the example: "...for each environment where you will...."

> . Use a `configuration-properties` global configuration on your configuration file to load environment properties from the previously created file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use a `configuration-properties` global configuration in your configuration file to load environment properties from the previously created file:
```
Is "the previously created file" a reference to the files created in Step 1? Should we clarify that here?

+
[source,xml]
----
 <configuration-properties file="${mule-env}.properties"/>
----

> . Replace HTTP configuration with placeholders matching the variables defined on the properties file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Replace the HTTP configuration with placeholders matching the variables defined in the properties file:
```

+
[source,xml]
----
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_configuration">
	<http:request-connection host="${http.host}" port="${http.port}"/>
</http:request-config>
<flow name="requestApiFlow">
	<http:request method="GET" config-ref="HTTP_Request_configuration" path="/employee"/>
</flow>
----

> . To load the QA properties during the MUnit tests execution, you need to define an environment variable on the MUnit maven plugin:

Reviewer: Is this still the task of consuming data from a test environment/QA API endpoint?
Is this step in the proper order in the task, if so? It sounds like it is a preliminary requirement. Would it be simpler but still clear to change the step to:
```suggestion
. Define an environment variable in the MUnit Maven plugin:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
 <configuration>
     ...
     <environmentVariables>
         <mule-env>qa</mule-env>
     </environmentVariables>
     ...
 </configuration>
----
+

> During the MUnit tests execution, MUnit loads the properties from the `qa` properties file and connects to your test environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the execution of the MUnit tests, MUnit loads the properties from the `qa` properties file and connects to your test environment.
```
or
```suggestion
During testing, MUnit loads the properties from the `qa` properties file and connects to your test environment.
```
